README.md, before:

Python Flink Examples
=====================

A collection of examples using Apache Flink's new python API.  To set up your local environment with 
the latest Flink build, see the guide [HERE](http://willmcginnis.com/2015/11/08/getting-started-with-python-and-apache-flink/).

The examples here use the v1.0 python API (they won't work with the current stable release pre-1.0), and
are meant to serve as demonstrations of simple use cases.  Currently the python API supports a portion of the DataSet
API, which has a similar functionality to Spark, from the user's perspective.

To run the examples, I've included a runner script at the top level with methods for each example, simply
add in the path to your pyflink script and you should be good to go (as long as you have a flask cluster running locally).

The currently included examples are:

Examples
========

A listing of the examples included here.

Word Count
----------

An extremely simple analysis program uses a source from a simple string, counts the occurrences of each word
and outputs to a file on disk (using the overwrite functionality).


Trending Hashtags
-----------------

A very similar example to word count, but includes a filter step to only include hashtags, and different source/sinks.
The input data in this case is read off of disk, and the output is written as a csv. The file is generated dynamically 
at run time, so you can play with different volumes of tweets to get an idea of Flink's scalability and performance.


Data Enrichment
---------------

In this example, we have row-wise json in one file, with an attribute field that refers to a csv dimension table with
colors.  So we load both datasets in, convert the json data into a ordered and typed tuple, and join then two together
to get a nice dataset of cars and their colors.

Mean Values
-----------

Takes in a csv with two columns and finds the mean of each column, using a custom reducer function.  Afterwards, it 
formats a string nicely with the output and dumps that onto disk.

Mandelbrot Set
--------------

Creates a Mandelbrot set from a set of candidates. Inspired by [this post](http://1oclockbuzz.com/2015/11/24/pyspark-and-the-mandelbrot-set-overkill-indeed/)

Features
========

A quick listing of high level features, and the examples that include them

Text data-source (read\_text)
----------------------------

 * trending hashtags
 * data enrichment

CSV data-source (read\_csv)
---------------------------
    
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot

String data-source (from\_elements)
-----------------------------------

 * word count

Text output (write\_text)
-------------------------

 * word count
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot

CSV output (write\_csv)
-----------------------

 * trending hashtags
 
Log to stdout output (output)
-----------------------------


Transformations: Map
--------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot
 
Transformations: FlatMap
------------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags

Transformations: MapPartition
-----------------------------


Transformations: Filter
-----------------------

 * trending hashtags
 * mandelbrot

Transformations: Reduce
-----------------------

 * mean values
 
Transformations: ReduceGroup
----------------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags

Transformations: Join
--------------------

 * data enrichment
 
Transformations: CoGroup
------------------------


Transformations: Cross
----------------------


Transformations: Union
----------------------


Gotchas We've Found
===================

As we go through the process of making these examples in an extremely young library, we run across quirks, that we will
mention here, and if appropriate report as bugs (we will take these down once they are fixed if they are bugs).

Using os.path to set file paths dynamically
-------------------------------------------

There is a tendency to want to write code without hard-coded paths.  So we may include the path to the output file
in the word count example as:

    import os
    output_path = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)) + os.sep + 'output_file.txt'
    
But this doesn't seem to work, because some part of how pyflink is executing the python code moves it, so the abspath
term evaluates to some temp directory.

Commit message:

added images of plans and tested against newest master branch

README.md, after:

Python Flink Examples
=====================

![Flink UI](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/flink_ui.png)

A collection of examples using Apache Flink's new python API.  To set up your local environment with 
the latest Flink build, see the guide:
 
 * [HERE](http://willmcginnis.com/2015/11/08/getting-started-with-python-and-apache-flink/).

The examples here use the v0.10.0 python API, and are meant to serve as demonstrations of simple use cases.  Currently 
the python API supports a portion of the DataSet API, which has a similar functionality to Spark, from the user's 
perspective.

To run the examples, I've included a runner script at the top level with methods for each example, simply
add in the path to your pyflink script and you should be good to go (as long as you have a flink cluster running locally).

The currently included examples are:

Examples
========

A listing of the examples and their resultant flink plans are included here.

Word Count
----------

An extremely simple analysis program uses a source from a simple string, counts the occurrences of each word
and outputs to a file on disk (using the overwrite functionality).

![Word Count Plan](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/word_count_plan.png)

Trending Hashtags
-----------------

A very similar example to word count, but includes a filter step to only include hashtags, and different source/sinks.
The input data in this case is read off of disk, and the output is written as a csv. The file is generated dynamically 
at run time, so you can play with different volumes of tweets to get an idea of Flink's scalability and performance.

![Trending Hashtags Plan](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/trending_hashtags_plan.png)

Data Enrichment
---------------

In this example, we have row-wise json in one file, with an attribute field that refers to a csv dimension table with
colors.  So we load both datasets in, convert the json data into a ordered and typed tuple, and join then two together
to get a nice dataset of cars and their colors.

![Data Enrichment Plan](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/data_enrichment_plan.png)

Mean Values
-----------

Takes in a csv with two columns and finds the mean of each column, using a custom reducer function.  Afterwards, it 
formats a string nicely with the output and dumps that onto disk.

![Mean Values Plan](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/mean_values_plan.png)

Mandelbrot Set
--------------

Creates a Mandelbrot set from a set of candidates. Inspired by [this post](http://1oclockbuzz.com/2015/11/24/pyspark-and-the-mandelbrot-set-overkill-indeed/)

![Mandelbrot Plan](https://github.com/wdm0006/flink-python-examples/tree/master/images/mandelbrot_plan.png)

Features
========

A quick listing of high level features, and the examples that include them

Text data-source (read\_text)
----------------------------

 * trending hashtags
 * data enrichment

CSV data-source (read\_csv)
---------------------------
    
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot

String data-source (from\_elements)
-----------------------------------

 * word count

Text output (write\_text)
-------------------------

 * word count
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot

CSV output (write\_csv)
-----------------------

 * trending hashtags
 
Log to stdout output (output)
-----------------------------


Transformations: Map
--------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags
 * data enrichment
 * mean values
 * mandelbrot
 
Transformations: FlatMap
------------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags

Transformations: MapPartition
-----------------------------


Transformations: Filter
-----------------------

 * trending hashtags
 * mandelbrot

Transformations: Reduce
-----------------------

 * mean values
 
Transformations: ReduceGroup
----------------------------

 * word count
 * trending hashtags

Transformations: Join
--------------------

 * data enrichment
 
Transformations: CoGroup
------------------------


Transformations: Cross
----------------------


Transformations: Union
----------------------


Gotchas We've Found
===================

As we go through the process of making these examples in an extremely young library, we run across quirks, that we will
mention here, and if appropriate report as bugs (we will take these down once they are fixed if they are bugs).

Using os.path to set file paths dynamically
-------------------------------------------

There is a tendency to want to write code without hard-coded paths.  So we may include the path to the output file
in the word count example as:

    import os
    output_path = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__)) + os.sep + 'output_file.txt'
    
But this doesn't seem to work, because some part of how pyflink is executing the python code moves it, so the abspath
term evaluates to some temp directory.
